<!-- the section below is automatically generated.

If you want to modify the questions:
- please edit the files in the `src/questions` folder.
- run `faqtory build` from the root of the repository.

-->

## Can I add more arguments to the API of my App?

Every BIDS App must use the mandatory arguments mentioned above, but you are
free to add more that are specific to the task your App will perform.

We recommend you follow the guidelines mentioned in the
[BIDS extension proposal 027](https://bids.neuroimaging.io/bep027)
for more information on specifying the API of your App.

## How can I download a particular version of a BIDS App?

All versions of BIDS Apps are archived on Docker Hub. To access a particular
version you should refer to a specific Docker Hub tag. For example:

```bash
docker pull bids/example:v0.0.5
```

## Is there a BIDS App template?

Have a look at the
[example BIDS App repository](https://github.com/bids-apps/example). A
minimalist example of a BIDS App consisting of a Dockerfile and a simple entry
point script (written in this case in Python) accepting the standard BIDS Apps
command line arguments.

## What the kinds of analysis levels (`participant` and `group`) mean?

Generally, `participant` means individual level analysis (for instance: single
subject) The group level analysis can be thought of as the second step, where
the input becomes the output of the `participant` level analysis.

For example, generating statistic maps of each subject's brain could be
considered `participant`, while generating the average of these maps across the
dataset could be considered `group`.

## Where can I can data to test my BIDS app

For both lightweight and full datasets to test your BIDS App, you can choose
from one of these
[example datasets](https://bids-standard.github.io/bids-starter-kit/dataset_examples.html)

## Which container should I use to start building my BIDS App?

The only minimum requirements of a BIDS App's container is its ability to run
your pipeline. So for example, if your App is mostly Python based it should be
sufficient to start with any image that has Python and include your environment
dependencies.

<hr>

Generated by [FAQtory](https://github.com/willmcgugan/faqtory)
