---
date: 2022-12-08
slug: Steering Group minutes
author: anonymous
---

<!-- more -->

<table>
 <thead>
  <tr class="header">
   <th>
    <strong>
     Topic
    </strong>
   </th>
   <th>
    <strong>
     Relevant Links
    </strong>
   </th>
  </tr>
 </thead>
 <tbody>
  <tr class="odd">
   <td>
    BEP020
   </td>
   <td>
    <ul>
     <li>
      <blockquote>
       <p>
        <a href="https://bids-standard.org/bep020">
         <span class="underline">
          https://bids-standard.org/bep020
         </span>
        </a>
       </p>
      </blockquote>
     </li>
     <li>
      <blockquote>
       <p>
        PR:
        <a href="https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-specification/pull/1128">
         <span class="underline">
          https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-specification/pull/1128
         </span>
        </a>
       </p>
      </blockquote>
     </li>
     <li>
      <blockquote>
       <p>
        Rendered BEP:
        <a href="https://bids-specification--1128.org.readthedocs.build/en/1128/modality-specific-files/eye-tracking.html">
         <span class="underline">
          https://bids-specification--1128.org.readthedocs.build/en/1128/modality-specific-files/eye-tracking.html
         </span>
        </a>
       </p>
      </blockquote>
     </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
     Relates to deepmreye:
    </p>
    <p>
     <a href="https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34750593/">
      <span class="underline">
       https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34750593/
      </span>
     </a>
    </p>
    <p>
     First version of a bids app for deepmreye this morning:
     <a href="https://pypi.org/project/bidsmreye/">
      <span class="underline">
       https://pypi.org/project/bidsmreye/
      </span>
     </a>
    </p>
    <p>
     ACTION: add a redirect link in the google doc to point to the PR
    </p>
    <p>
     Matrix channel:
     <a href="https://matrix.to/#/#bids-bep020:matrix.org">
      <span class="underline">
       https://matrix.to/#/#bids-bep020:matrix.org
      </span>
     </a>
    </p>
    <ul>
     <li>
      <blockquote>
       <p>
        BEP020 needs to point to the new location (GH pull request) and must mention the place where the community discussion is taking place (somewhere on matrix).
       </p>
      </blockquote>
     </li>
    </ul>
    <ul>
     <li>
      <blockquote>
       <p>
        Ownership of BEPs should be transferred to BIDS maintainers
       </p>
      </blockquote>
     </li>
     <li>
      <blockquote>
       <p>
        Can we get an automatic email or status update if a google doc is updated, meaning make it externally visible that it is active (just like we aim for with tools)?
       </p>
      </blockquote>
     </li>
     <li>
      <blockquote>
       <p>
        An aspect of time synchronization is present,
        <a href="https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-specification/issues/86">
         <span class="underline">
          bids-specification/issues/86
         </span>
        </a>
        carries original discussion
       </p>
      </blockquote>
     </li>
    </ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr class="even">
   <td>
    <p>
     Recognizing BIDS validated datasets
    </p>
    <ul>
     <li>
      <blockquote>
       <p>
        Unique badges?
       </p>
      </blockquote>
     </li>
     <li>
      <blockquote>
       <p>
        Action: make list of places where these could be advertised
       </p>
      </blockquote>
     </li>
    </ul>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr class="odd">
   <td>
    <p>
     Community projects board
    </p>
    <ul>
     <li>
      <blockquote>
       <p>
        Under ‘get involved’ on homepage
       </p>
      </blockquote>
     </li>
    </ul>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr class="even">
   <td>
    Writing up BIDS usage survey into blog post
   </td>
   <td>
    <p>
     Add info from MRIQC:
    </p>
    <p>
     June 2022: QC metrics from ~375K unique BOLD scans and ~280K T1 scans
    </p>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr class="odd">
   <td>
    <p>
     Task definition:
    </p>
    <ul>
     <li>
      <blockquote>
       <p>
        Task addition for all other modalities besides fMRI
       </p>
      </blockquote>
     </li>
     <li>
      <blockquote>
       <p>
        Clarification of tasks in appendix
       </p>
      </blockquote>
     </li>
    </ul>
   </td>
   <td>
    <p>
     Task addition PRs:
    </p>
    <p>
     Anat:
     <a href="https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-specification/pull/1185">
      <span class="underline">
       https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-specification/pull/1185
      </span>
     </a>
     - merged
    </p>
    <p>
     PET:
     <a href="https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-specification/pull/1196">
      <span class="underline">
       https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-specification/pull/1196
      </span>
     </a>
     - merged
    </p>
    <p>
     Task clarification:
    </p>
    <p>
     <a href="https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-specification/issues/1314">
      <span class="underline">
       https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-specification/issues/1314
      </span>
     </a>
     - merged
    </p>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr class="even">
   <td>
    <p>
     BIDS derivatives meeting
    </p>
    <ul>
     <li>
      <blockquote>
       <p>
        organized by OpenNeuroPET project
       </p>
      </blockquote>
     </li>
     <li>
      <blockquote>
       <p>
        how would May 2023 sound?
       </p>
      </blockquote>
     </li>
     <li>
      <blockquote>
       <p>
        physical/hybrid?
       </p>
      </blockquote>
     </li>
    </ul>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr class="odd">
   <td>
    <p>
     BIDS maintainers: (added by Rémi)
    </p>
    <ul>
     <li>
      <blockquote>
       <p>
        One BIDS maintainers representative during steering group to help relay information.
       </p>
      </blockquote>
     </li>
    </ul>
   </td>
   <td>
    Just an FYI
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr class="even">
   <td>
    <p>
     Update governance (added by Rémi):
    </p>
    <p>
     Rémi and Eric met to talk about several things.
    </p>
    <ul>
     <li>
      <blockquote>
       <p>
        Ask “Does the Governance website and documentation state how it itself should be amended?”
       </p>
      </blockquote>
     </li>
     <li>
      <blockquote>
       <p>
        Propose governance for an Advisory Group members’ (lead of merged BEP) commitment:
       </p>
      </blockquote>
      <ul>
       <li>
        <blockquote>
         <p>
          Cannot ask them to commit for life
         </p>
        </blockquote>
       </li>
       <li>
        <blockquote>
         <p>
          maybe 2 year minimum plus designating a successor, or some such thing
         </p>
        </blockquote>
       </li>
      </ul>
     </li>
     <li>
      <blockquote>
       <p>
        Draft email for consent of completed BEP leads for them to be part of the Advisory group or to nominate someone(s) else
       </p>
      </blockquote>
     </li>
    </ul>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
 </tbody>
</table>

**Guest:** Martin Szinte, lead for [BEP020: Eye tracking including gaze
position and pupil
size](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eggzTCzSHG3AEKhtnEDbcdk-2avXN6I94X8aUPEBVsw/edit?usp=sharing)
