---
date: 2023-09-28
slug: Steering Group minutes
author: anonymous
---

<!-- more -->

<table>
 <colgroup>
  <col style="width: 47%"/>
  <col style="width: 52%"/>
 </colgroup>
 <thead>
  <tr class="header">
   <th>
    <strong>
     Topic
    </strong>
   </th>
   <th>
    <strong>
     Relevant Links
    </strong>
   </th>
  </tr>
  <tr class="odd">
   <th>
    Continued Discussion from last meeting on Spatial Derivatives?
   </th>
   <th>
    <a href="https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-specification/issues/1602">
     <u>
      https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-specification/issues/1602
     </u>
    </a>
   </th>
  </tr>
  <tr class="header">
   <th>
    The Neuro - Irv and Helga Cooper Foundation Open Science Prize
submission
   </th>
   <th>
    Done. Thank Ariel for making it happen!
   </th>
  </tr>
  <tr class="odd">
   <th>
    Any Follow up from Renzo Huber at Aperture?
   </th>
   <th>
    <strong>
     KIM will follow up on this.
    </strong>
   </th>
  </tr>
  <tr class="header">
   <th>
    <p>
     OHBM Call for Content opened Sept 22nd.
    </p>
    <p>
     Things to consider:
    </p>
    <ul>
     <li>
      <p>
       Townhall meeting space request
      </p>
     </li>
     <li>
      <p>
       BIDS symposium or other presentations
      </p>
     </li>
    </ul>
   </th>
   <th>
    <p>
     <a href="https://humanbrainmapping.org/i4a/pages/index.cfm?pageid=4229#:~:text=These%20are%20included%20in%20the,%2435%20USD%20again%20in%202024">
      <u>
       https://humanbrainmapping.org/i4a/pages/index.cfm?pageid=4229#:~:text=These%20are%20included%20in%20the,%2435%20USD%20again%20in%202024
      </u>
     </a>
     .
    </p>
    <ul>
     <li>
      <p>
       Cyril to submit a round-table for town-hall meeting
      </p>
     </li>
     <li>
      <p>
       Franco and Ariel will be submitting a symposium, more content
(a.o., Russ to present along the lines of recent paper)
      </p>
     </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
     <strong>
      DUE DATE Nov 17, 2023
     </strong>
    </p>
   </th>
  </tr>
  <tr class="odd">
   <th>
    Update on NSF POSE conference in Q1 2024
   </th>
   <th>
    <a href="https://new.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/pathways-enable-open-source-ecosystems-pose">
     <u>
      https://new.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/pathways-enable-open-source-ecosystems-pose
     </u>
    </a>
   </th>
  </tr>
  <tr class="header">
   <th>
    BIDS maintainers meeting in Seattle, April 10th - 12th, 2024
   </th>
   <th>
   </th>
  </tr>
  <tr class="odd">
   <th>
    Camille's email BIDS-Prov BEP028
   </th>
   <th>
    <a href="https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-specification/pull/487">
     <u>
      https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-specification/pull/487
     </u>
    </a>
    has been closed
   </th>
  </tr>
  <tr class="header">
   <th>
   </th>
   <th>
   </th>
  </tr>
 </thead>
 <tbody>
 </tbody>
</table>

**Present:** Cyril Pernet, Ariel Rokem, Chris Markiewicz, Robert
Oostenveld, Guiomar Niso, Yaroslav Halchenko

**Guest:**

Meeting Notes:

**Kim's Maternity leave through the end of the year**

Remaining 2023 agendas are listed in the steering group

Sign up sheet is
[[here]](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Ys52kgOebRxGPYSvowTcmaZhph8rZ0_kflFQ6jtRUU4/edit#gid=0)
for assuming Kim's role in meeting management: Guiomar, Robert and Ariel
take turns at the next three meetings. We won't meet on 21 Dec.

**Meeting schedule:**

- December 21st. NO MEETING - Kim will remove agenda and calendar.

**Open science Prize:**

- Application is complete!

- Ariel will update the letters of support in the BIDS drive along
  with the other application materials

**OHBM content call:**

- We should submit a round table request for the BIDS townhall
  meeting - Cyril will submit this

- Or should this be part of the Symposium for BIDS?

**Aperture:**

- Kim will follow up on any updates from the Aperture committee

**NSF POSE Q1 2024:**

- Ariel's proposal has been funded, there will be an open source
  software meeting that will happen as a result of this funding. More
  information to come

**BIDS Maintainers Meeting**

- April 10-12, 2023 - maintainers has indicated that this is an ideal
  timeframe for them

- NSF will only fund within US travel under this mechanism - non-US
  maintainers will need to find funding to travel US and then the NSF
  grant can pay for their travel within the US.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```

- **NSF can support travel to the meeting**

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```

- Are there non-US projects funding BIDS?

- Cyril -

- Can BIDS connectivity project (Franco Pestilli?) support Peer's
  travel?

- Will non-maintainers also attend?

- Maintainers may identify additional attendees

- BEP leads that are ready to be merged may be ideal additional
  attendees

- Ariel will attend a maintainers meeting next week to help plan
  further.

**BIDS-Prov BEP028** (Camille's email Prov)

- Is their BEP ready to be merged? What are the next steps?

- This BEP will likely not be merged directly into the BIDS validator;
  the validator could call to this BEP similar to how it is done for
  PET data.

- Maintainers will work with Camille to determine how to implement the
  BIDS-Prov BEP

**BIDS Spatial Derivatives**

- Proposal seems to be converging, there needs to be a vote on how to
  move forward

- Meant to curb the explosion of Suffixes in file naming

- Next steps: PR to BIDS extensions site for guidance that gets
  up/down voted?

- End discussion period, Allow two weeks for a voting period

**Next Meeting Guest?**

- Any BIDS leads?

- Robert will invite the leads of the NIBS BEP (non invasive brain
  stimulation,
  [[BEP037]](https://bids.neuroimaging.io/bep037)) to ask
  whether they want to attend the next or next-next BIDS meeting.

**More generally: BIDS advisory group (i.e., BEP leads) engagement**

- Start meetings with BEP leads and SG

- BIDS Townhall format? Additional meeting with lead for discussing
