---
date: 2023-08-17
slug: Steering Group minutes
author: anonymous
---

<!-- more -->

<table>
 <thead>
  <tr class="header">
   <th>
    <strong>
     Topic
    </strong>
   </th>
   <th>
    <strong>
     Relevant Links
    </strong>
   </th>
  </tr>
 </thead>
 <tbody>
  <tr class="odd">
   <td>
    <p>
     Neuro Open Science Prize: CFP ?
    </p>
    <p>
     Materials for 2023 submission:
    </p>
   </td>
   <td>
    <p>
     <a href="https://www.mcgill.ca/neuro/open-science/open-science-awards-and-prizes/neuro-irv-and-helga-cooper-foundation-open-science-prizes">
      <span class="underline">
       https://www.mcgill.ca/neuro/open-science/open-science-awards-and-prizes/neuro-irv-and-helga-cooper-foundation-open-science-prizes
      </span>
     </a>
    </p>
    <p>
     <a href="https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1G9sOijuGGBovIy_M_-hSiETgoe2srj9g">
      <span class="underline">
       https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1G9sOijuGGBovIy_M_-hSiETgoe2srj9g
      </span>
     </a>
    </p>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr class="even">
   <td>
    BIDS at upcoming INCF training?
   </td>
   <td>
    <a href="https://www.incf.org/incf-short-course-introduction-neuroinformatics-2023">
     <span class="underline">
      https://www.incf.org/incf-short-course-introduction-neuroinformatics-2023
     </span>
    </a>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr class="odd">
   <td>
    <a href="http://www.bids-standard.org">
     <span class="underline">
      http://www.bids-standard.org
     </span>
    </a>
    destiny
   </td>
   <td>
    Russ posted about long time availability. Should we advocate switching or not?
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr class="even">
   <td>
    BIDS at the upcoming SfN?
   </td>
   <td>
    <p>
     Opportunities:
    </p>
    <ul>
     <li>
      <blockquote>
       <p>
        DANDI/NWB booth
       </p>
      </blockquote>
     </li>
    </ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr class="odd">
   <td>
    <del>
     BIDS 2.0 baby
    </del>
    <del>
     steps
    </del>
   </td>
   <td>
    <del>
     <a href="https://github.com/orgs/bids-standard/projects/10">
      <span class="underline">
       https://github.com/orgs/bids-standard/projects/10
      </span>
     </a>
    </del>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr class="even">
   <td>
    News from the maintainers
   </td>
   <td>
    <ul>
     <li>
      <blockquote>
       <p>
        Ross: “Schema validator will be done in 3 weeks ;) ?“
       </p>
      </blockquote>
     </li>
     <li>
      <blockquote>
       <p>
        Attempt to centralize list of converters, tools, BEPs, ...
        <a href="https://github.com/bids-standard/awesome-bids">
         <span class="underline">
          https://github.com/bids-standard/awesome-bids
         </span>
        </a>
       </p>
      </blockquote>
     </li>
     <li>
      <blockquote>
       <p>
        Inheritance problem again:
        <a href="https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-specification/issues/1583">
         <span class="underline">
          https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-specification/issues/1583
         </span>
        </a>
       </p>
      </blockquote>
      <ul>
       <li>
        <blockquote>
         <p>
          Eric’s suggestion: “
          <em>
           several maintainers and steering group members for next week's schema hack
          </em>
          ”
         </p>
        </blockquote>
       </li>
       <li>
        <blockquote>
         <p>
          Schema meeting: every thursday on GatherTown
          <a href="https://app.gather.town/app/ESJPNXX7CVirKett/nmind">
           <span class="underline">
            https://app.gather.town/app/ESJPNXX7CVirKett/nmind
           </span>
          </a>
         </p>
        </blockquote>
       </li>
      </ul>
     </li>
    </ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
 </tbody>
</table>

<br>

**Present:** Ariel Rokem, Guiomar Niso, Robert Oostenveld, Yarsloav
Halchenko, Remi Gau, Kim Ray

**Guest:** n/a

[Templates for letters](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1ljPEhXoNPD8lMukV0WYr-yo_v6J7zaQy?usp=drive_link)

BIDS Meeting Notes:

### Neuro Open Science Prize

-   Do we have the previous letters of support that were submitted?

-   Who should we ask for letters?

-   ~~We need 10 letters~~ - new requirements is to identify 3
  referees (submitted by sept 10)

   -   Damien Fair, Peter Bandettini, EBrains? (Maurizio Corbetta, Katrin Amunts), Simon Eickhoff

   -   [[https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1gYfP1C84e1\_81HPIGBbXl8v\_Z3b43uCLGHBa0RhtnOM/edit\#gid=0]](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1gYfP1C84e1_81HPIGBbXl8v_Z3b43uCLGHBa0RhtnOM/edit#gid=0)

-   We should ask individuals involved with larger projects to write
  on behalf of impact for their respective organizations (
  DANDI, IBI, NIH, and so on)

-   Ariel will lead the submission, the remaining BIDS steering
  group will be the additional applicants

### BIDS at upcoming INCF training

-   Yarik will be presenting at the upcoming INCF training course, how
  can BIDS be discussed?

-   Franco Pestilli will also be presenting on data governance, can he
  touch on BIDS as well?

### BIDS-Standard.org website

-   Russ mentioned he's been supporting the bids-standard.org web
  address

-   Should BIDS migrate over to this new address? (and lose the
  neuroimaging.io part of the web address)

-   Can provide pointers from old website to the new address

-   **Steering Group supports the move!**

### BIDS at the upcoming SfN

-   Yarik will have a booth for DANDI and is happy to also support BIDS
  at the booth

-   Are the promo materials that could be provided for the booth?

-   Hand outs, banners?

-   Is there a Promo video that could be played throughout the
  meeting?

### Maintainers Updates - Remi

-   Inheritance issue - can several people attend the schema meeting to
  help tackle this problem?

-   Weekly meeting is Thursdays - Kim will at the steering group to the
  calendar invite.
