---
date: 2023-06-15
slug: Steering Group minutes
author: anonymous
---

# Steering Group minutes 2023/06/15

Date: Thursday, June 15th, 2023

<!--more-->


<table>
 <thead>
  <tr class="header">
   <th>
    <strong>
     Topic
    </strong>
   </th>
   <th>
    <strong>
     Relevant Links
    </strong>
   </th>
  </tr>
 </thead>
 <tbody>
  <tr class="odd">
   <td>
    BIDS meeting with DICOM
   </td>
   <td>
    <p>
     Announcement:
     <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mIf-WUeg4QLei8PwiUlgy0Pmm9Mp7wtTBmLrXtPUcCg/edit?usp=sharing">
      <span class="underline">
       https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mIf-WUeg4QLei8PwiUlgy0Pmm9Mp7wtTBmLrXtPUcCg/edit?usp=sharing
      </span>
     </a>
    </p>
    <p>
     Slides:
     <a href="http://datasets.datalad.org/centerforopenneuroscience/talks/2023-bids-dicom.html#/">
      <span class="underline">
       http://datasets.datalad.org/centerforopenneuroscience/talks/2023-bids-dicom.html#/
      </span>
     </a>
    </p>
    <p>
     Points taken:
     <a href="https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-specification/issues/1515">
      <span class="underline">
       https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-specification/issues/1515
      </span>
     </a>
    </p>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr class="even">
   <td>
    Imaging Neuroscience Response regarding BIDS ‘badge’
   </td>
   <td>
    <p>
     (see email from Steve Smith)
     <br/>
     “Thanks for this - hopefully we all agree that using BIDS is a good idea where practical, and should be encouraged.
    </p>
    <p>
     The best thing would be for BIDS (committee and so on) to encourage authors to be very clear and explicit (eg in Methods text) when BIDS has been used, just as with the many other important aspects of the methodology used in a given paper. At Imaging Neuroscience we would have no problem at all in authors being clear about their use of BIDS. We couldn't have a "front page badge" because that would risk an overwhelming number of similar requests, but I think the important thing is to explicitly mention use of BIDS in the main text.
    </p>
    <p>
     “
    </p>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr class="odd">
   <td>
    OHBM BIDS Town Hall
   </td>
   <td>
    <a href="https://github.com/ohbm/osr2023/issues/4">
     <span class="underline">
      https://github.com/ohbm/osr2023/issues/4
     </span>
    </a>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr class="even">
   <td>
    BIDS impact
   </td>
   <td>
    Update:
    <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Q7JTOvUqt05YQfnbvGoP1SZQy_CGkNEVcsVZeS4D5_o/edit#heading=h.6hc65il3ac75">
     <span class="underline">
      BIDS grant writing kit
     </span>
    </a>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr class="odd">
   <td>
    Harmonizing Gdrive folders
   </td>
   <td>
    <p>
     BIDS Maintainers GDrive:
     <a href="https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1qCx4Zopmz7IyLpi8KdrSqIdfpb-bELsV">
      <span class="underline">
       https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1qCx4Zopmz7IyLpi8KdrSqIdfpb-bELsV
      </span>
     </a>
    </p>
    <p>
     BIDS Steering Group GDrive:
     <a href="https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1afNWTxsKc82mD0zEwlm5GdodcNRmogp4">
      <span class="underline">
       https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1afNWTxsKc82mD0zEwlm5GdodcNRmogp4
      </span>
     </a>
    </p>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr class="even">
   <td>
    BIDS Derivatives Meeting in Copenhagen
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
 </tbody>
</table>

<br>

**Present:** Guiomar Niso, Robert Oostenveld, Kim Ray, Yaroslav
Halchenko, Cyril Pernet, Taylor Salo

**Guest:** n/a

## NOTES

DICOM working group 16 meeting:

DICOM is similar to BIDS BEPS where it is organized in working groups.

DICOMworking group 16 works with MRI - they are a good point of contact.

See slides in the agenda for information Yaroslav presented

They recommended to contact working group 6 which may be a more
general group for additional meta-data fields

They seem receptive but they are a large working group

ACTION ITEMS:

-   contact phillips rep to identify what information is missing from
    DICOMS?

-   Collect an initiative to collect sample dicoms (phantoms) to
    identify what meta-data is needed for BIDS that is not currently
    provided

-   Who should we contact (DICOM working group, manufacturer?) to
    address deficient information in DICOMS? - DICOM working groups
    dont use Github, they need email requests.

-   The method of reporting the findings from the pilot study should be
    reusable and accessible (i.e. not an email, create an issue in
    BIDS so that it can be referred to later).

    -   We could create a github issue for each email to DICOM or other
        recipients

Imaging Neuroscience Response from Steve Smith

-   Steve says that the BIDS compliance is up the the reviewers

    -   So then should we educate the reviewers on how to ensure that a
        brain dataset is BIDS compliant?

-   Can we respond with a solution to help the reviewers

    -   Have authors provide a certificate of BIDS compliance from a
        BIDS validator

    -   Provide instructions for the average Imaging Neuroscience
        reviewer

-   Develop instructions for reviewers as a starting point? (also
    include on the BIDS website)

    -   Getting started for:

        -   Users

        -   tools developers,

        -   reviewers,

        -   funding agencies

        -   Institute directors

    -   Should this be in the form of a
        [Checklist](https://www.nmind.org/standards-checklist/)
        . Filed
        [standards-checklist/issues/2](https://github.com/nmind/standards-checklist/issues/28)
        (also relating to COBIDAS and their app)

### BIDS Derivatives Meeting in Copenhagen

Is there a virtual option?

Main few talks will be available.

### OHBM BIDS Town Hall

We could have used one of the times that was not being utilized by the
OS-SIG. [Kimberly Ray](mailto:kimray@utexas.edu) will
follow up on this with BIDS maintainers and OS-SIG schedule. RIght now
we are potentially taking a space that others could have used to discuss
research/science.
