---
date: 2024-08-30
slug: "Steering Group minutes"
author: anonymous
categories:
-   steering group minutes
---

<!-- more -->

## Participants

-   Kim Ray
-   Eric Earl
-   Ariel Rokem
-   Dora Hermes
-   Yaroslav Halchenko

## HackMD transition

-   Success

## BIDS stimulus specification

-   progress is ongoing with this, there is a google doc created and specification
-   [PR to reserve BEP044](https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-website/pull/479)

## BIDS Website URL

> Should "bids.neuroimaging.io" send you to the new website
> or should `https://bids-website.readthedocs.io` send you to the new website
> or should we use "bids.org" or "www.bids-standard.org"?

-   we can't get bids.org because it will be prohibitively costly (>>$10,000+)
-   current decision to remain with bids.neuroimaging.io

## INCF Assembly Tabling by Yarik, Eric, Anthony, and ???

> Thanks to Ariel for settling the discussions with INCF!
> Who is coordinating with INCF to make sure it is mentioned in their program/schedule/book/website
> and what it should say, if possible?
> Is there a budget beyond just the $500 deal made for BIDS swag/flyers/supplies?

![BIDS. Change My Mind](https://hackmd.io/_uploads/ByahOWTjR.png)

-   If James is willing to sit at the booth, then it seems fine for him to use the free registration

-   who is working with INCF for advertising BIDS?

-   Ariel will ask Helena about adding BIDS to the schedule...

-   BIDS swag: Ariel prefers to purchase swag using his institutional card for ease of reimbursement.
    Send to: 108 E dean Keeton Austin TX 78712?

## Remote BIDS Town Hall

-   maintainers support this idea, but would want attendees to RSVP
-   a remote meeting is favorable
-   form an organizing committee
-   need to determine a date that does not interfere with a large conference
-   Can we start a small group of townhall organizers?

## Part-time volunteer coordinator

> Can the Steering Group hire/pay a part-time volunteer coordinator for BIDS maintainers,
> steering group, and BEPs coordination?
> Kind of like what Franklin used to do.

-   Can BIDS pay for a part time BIDS coordinator position for steering group, maintainers, and BEPS?

-   currently everyone with BIDS is at a volunteer basis

-   possible solution: create an organization/foundation (501c3/non-profit) that labs could create a contract to support a person

    -   current issue:  where would the funding come from?
    -   similar models: Jupyter, [2i2c](https://2i2c.org/)
    -   we could write a CZI grant
    -   [Software Freedom Conservancy](https://sfconservancy.org/)
    -   [code for society](https://www.codeforsociety.org/)
    -   [National science foundation](https://new.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/pathways-enable-open-source-ecosystems-pose)

## Steering Group election

-   We need more support for this.
    -   Dora can meet with Chris to discuss how she can help.

-   Governance?
    -   Add in Code of Conduct procedure.
        Ariel will draft [this](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Cj9trFifGNqyNtpyEO9FfJLlmDGTbUy5enRAA9rTyH4/edit#heading=h.4k1noo90gelw)

    -   BEP procedure to ensure progress

## BIDS-INCF Google Season of Docs Project

-   [Update](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1h3mNGSvrLI43-qJcqu2__oNsDHk-RlKMbv0-z2tOctg/edit?usp=sharing)

-   website has been consolidated

-   [main webite restructure](https://bids-website.readthedocs.io/) needs mentor review (goal September 15)

-   would like community feedback starting October 1
    -   [Steering group feedback right now](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1O3trMc2-9MdLwj-RhRnUyQYe8ciWbvBYTeHqm63PcBg/edit#heading=h.w8lni71xnxbp)

-   TODO: Steering group to visit/review the website
    -   in particular [impact page](https://bids-website.readthedocs.io/en/latest/impact/index.html )

    -   Yarik:
        IMHO Grantsmanship better goes under "Collaboration",
        then two next sections (dashboards + measuring impact) should be joined into a single narrative flow

## BIDS organizational priorities

> What are the BIDS priorities and where should we, as an organization, be on our relative priorities? And did I miss any big ones below?
> -   developing standards and sites
> -   maintaining standards and sites
> -   internal support (things we need)
> -   external support (helping others)
> -   outreach (recruiting new BIDS users/contributors/maintainers/steering group members, keeping old users and contributors)
> -   growth (trying to improve adoption through self-promotion, appearance, marketing...)

-   earlier focus was the 'year of adoption' however priorities may need to adjust to maintaining BIDS
-   the group organization currently supports disparate priorities
-   more awareness could help with building active users that can help with BIDS support
