---
date: 2024-11-21
slug: "Steering Group minutes"
author: anonymous
categories:
-   steering group minutes
---

<!-- more -->

## Participants

-   Ariel Rokem (fairwell!)
-   Franco Pestilli (welcome!)
-   Camille Maumet
-   Yaroslav Halchenko
-   Dora Hermes
-   Kim Ray
-   Cyril Pernet
-   Chris Markiewicz
-   James Kent (From the [OHBM open-science special interest group - OSSIG](https://ossig.netlify.app/))
-   Ju-Chi Yu (From the OSSIG)
-   Robert OostenVeld (for the MED file format discussion)

## MED file format

-   MED is a new file format, a clinical format
    -   Nominally an update of the MEF3 format which is widely supported

-   The file formats are a little different, there are no common readers, not yet supported by the community.

-   File format may be a privatized from a clinical neurologist (MEF3, MET stat), it's not a free format.

-   YH: Since its not free, do we need to support them?

-   RO: This is a newer format that is potentially being added last minute, has not yet been community vetted.

-   YH: Should we establish requirement for adding a new file format? For example, adoption.

-   RO: Wide adopt is a current criteria, and its not yet met.
    It should also add additional value, and that has not yet been established.

-   CP: We should establish a procedure for adding new formats based on this request.

-   CM: Where should the procedure be established?

-   others: Where other guidelines are provided on the BIDS website.

-   CP: We should not support this file format because it does not meet criteria,
    we should share the criteria with them.

-   RO: suggested responding that the steering group choose not to include it now,
    but that it could be included in BIDS 2.0.

-   **Steering Group decicions: to not include at this time.**

## [OpenScience Room](https://ohbm.github.io/osr2024/) at OHBM

-   wanting to have a BIDS opener at OHBM
    -   there will be a platform for the town hall this year
        -   either crowdcast or zoom, decision has not been made yet.
            With zoom you can do youtube streaming at the same time.

-   OSR there was not a good attendance last year, they are looking for more engagement

-   Would like for a 20-30 minute BIDS summary.

-   Who from BIDS will be at OHBM that can present?

    -   Remi mentioned that BIDS townhall will likely not be during OHBM
        but the OSR can support this using their platform.

    -   Franco will be attending, Kim Ray will attend.

    -   CP: yes BIDS will have a representative that present during the opener, the person can be identified later.

    -   CamM: townhall online is more inclusive and important,
        can the OSR detail more about what they are expecting BIDS to present?

    -   JY: not a beginner, looking for a BIDS update and where the community can contribute.
        They are planning about a 10-20 minute slot, but could have up to 45 mins.

    -   AR: since a townhall is already being planned, a shorter presentation seems appropriate.

    -   JK: suggests to condense the BIDS townhall for the BIDS opener

    -   JY: they are planning to bring the hacking space back to the OSR
        which might have been why last year's OSR was less successful.

    -   CM: when should we let OSSIG know how long BIDS would like to present?

    -   JY: December.

    -   CamM: 20 minutes is reasonable

    -   JY: OSSIG will provide the platform for BIDS townhall, the platform is not yet determined but they will support.

    -   CamM: we should have/create an email account - the steering group needs to have a mechanism for communication (other than slack) (Camille will do, added to the todo items).

## New Steering Group Member

-   Welcome Franco Pestilli!

-   Which accounts does Franco need to join/gain access to?
    -   slack, hackmd, google drive, mattermost, github teams (owner permissions - Chris M will do this)

-   share the source for maintainer updates with Franco

-   NIH DCC - BIDS will need microsopy.

## Additional Discussion

-   we decided to move to mattermost a while ago but never adopted it, let's do it now.
-   AR added steering group members, should all members be allowed to be in the group?
-   CM: supports all SG members, we will move forward with all steering group members.
