---
date: 2024-08-08
slug: "Steering Group minutes #73"
author: anonymous
categories:
-   steering group minutes
---

<!-- more -->

## Participants

-   Kim Ray
-   Yaroslav Halchenko
-   Ariel Rokem
-   Cyril Pernet
-   Dora Hermes
-   Chris M. (maintainer)

## HackMD transition

-   maintainers have also started using hackmd
-   created a BIDS teams.

## Neuroinformatics/INCF 20241

-  who is going?
    -   Yaroslav
    -   Anthony Galassi is seeking funding/permission from NIH
    -   Kim will email Helena and Heather to ask about discount for booth (would it include registration)
    -   Ariel thinks that the TOSI prize can support a table

-   anything pro-BIDS to do?

## TOSI Funds

-   Can this also support travel to INCF? - need to confirm with Dartmouth

## SfN Meeting

-   DANDI will have a booth
-   BIDS can also be represented given their related projects.
-   Are there additional projects/initiaves that could be part of DANDI?

## CogSci

New meeting in Boston, not sure that there will be BIDS representation there.

## Other maintainer Questions

-   Would be good to start OHBM prep further in advance (~6mo?), including assigning tasks. (This year was a bit rushed.)
    -   need a more clear outline of duties for Steering Group and Maintainers
    -   Should BIDS Roundtable meeting go back to the OSR (to ensure hybrid engagement) or stick with OHBM to be included in the program
    -   Considering the upcoming Brisbane location, there may be a higher need for hybrid/virtual engagement
    -   Does BIDS townhall need to happen at OHBM? Or could it be a stand alone meeting.

-   $20 for [Opavote](https://opavote.com/) for election.
    -   steering group supports, Ariel (Yarik as backup) will support financially.

- Somewhat inchoate coordination woes:

    -   "we are seeing more requests, is there a coordinator role already that can respond?
        If not, how should the general inquiries be routed?"

    -   Could the contributing page help identify where to direct queries (e.g. a contact for interviews, press, etc)?
        We currently have a contact page [on the new website](https://bids-website.readthedocs.io/en/latest/contact/index.html)
        (which might not be sufficient)

## BIDS Virtual Meeting?

-   Should BIDS move their annual meeting "roundtable" outside of OHBM?

-   Chris will bring the dicsussion to the Maintainers.
