---
date: 2024-10-10
slug: "Steering Group minutes"
author: anonymous
categories:
-   steering group minutes
---

<!-- more -->

## Participants

    - Ariel Rokem
    - Camille Maumet
    - Dora Hermes
    - Kim Ray
    - Ross Blair

## BIDS Elections

-   a potential candidate was identified during INCF
    -   Dimitri Yatsenko, need to follow up with this person

-   Previous suggestions: Adina Wagner, Lyuba Zehl

-   Form for nominations is now closed , we might be able to still add people

-   Current Nominees: Arnaud Delorme, Ashley Stewart, Franco Pestilli, Alessio Giacomel, Lyuba Zehl

-   Steering group supports moving forward with election process.

-   What is the election timeline?
    -   Ariel will rotate out

    -   Mid-to-late November we will know who will be the next steering group meeting.

    -   The new steering group member will likely join in January, and January will be the last meeting for Ariel.

    -   AR will not disappear, he still has BIDS funds from the Open science prize that will be used to support future BIDS needs.

    -   AR is happy to organize another BIDS meeting similar to the previous Seattle BIDS meeting
        (although it could be held elsewhere as needed).

## Revisit Chris' Discusssion

-   View previous meeting and discussion notes here: https://hackmd.io/@bids-standard/BJsD-IP6C
-   there were many options presented
-   a chicken and egg situation circles around funding
-   the fiscal sponsorship sounded like a low barrier option
-   the current amount of funds that BIDS has may not be enough to support a person.

## INCF Fiscal Sponsorship

-   INCF will be hiring a replacement for Heather Topple when she goes on maternity leave soon.
    If there is funding for the role that the BIDS maintainers requested and a clear outline of what BIDS needs to be supported,
    then they could discuss the new hire helping with BIDS.

-   Eric Earl pointed us to a generic job description for a remote volunteer coordinator.

-   would fiscal sponsorship include something to the effect of receiving funds for 'BIDS memberships'
    and then support reimbursement of BIDS related expenses?

-   Would need to discuss this directly with Helena/Matthew

-   Potentially, groups could steer grant funds to INCF to support BIDS activity
    such as workshops or support from BIDS (either maintainers or other individuals within BIDS)

-   CM: some institutions are less inclined to pay an organization like BIDS

-   AR: we could use a membership model to begin pooling funds
    that could support coomunity management for BIDS. This would require a lot of work.

-   CM: can we chat more with INCF to better understand the options

-   KR: will ask Helena/Matthew to join

-   questions to ask:
    -   funding models (membership...)
    -   what does/can INCF support?
    -   what expertise we need?

## OHBM planning

-   the [OHBM website is open for submissions]( https://humanbrainmapping.org/i4a/pages/index.cfm?pageID=4235)

-   DH: having a steady presence would be good to continue awareness for new contributors

-   Maintainters (RB) : OS-SIG is looking to coordinate an event about the entire BEP process.
    No plans made yet.

-   AR thinks this is a great educational opportunity, seems more welcoming to people new to BIDS.
    Suggests including a general introduction to BIDS (Remi has some good slides).

-   It may take too long to have a steering group meeting guest (James Kent?).
    We should move forward with this between meetings considering how quickly OHBM submissions will be here.

-   AR will email reply to the OS-SIG.

-   CM: Need to see who from BIDS will be attend OHBM this year.

## Update on Code of Conduct

-   Ariel will have a draft for amendments for Code of Conduct, process, and maintaining violations by the time of the BIDS election.

-   repeat offenders should be recorded, who will keep the ongoing list of those that have violated the code of conduct?
    AR will update this in the documents.

-   This will effect the governance docments,
    and thus the changes to governance documents will need to be voted on
    (contacts for code of conduct violations, other minor changes in language)
