---
date: 2025-02-13
slug: "Steering Group minutes"
author: anonymous
categories:
-   steering group minutes
---

## Participants

- Dora Hermes
- Kim Ray 
- Franco Pestilli
- Cyril Pernet
- RÃ©mi Gau (BIDS maintainer)
- Yaroslav Halchenko

## Agenda

1. BIDS meeting `10min`
    - [ ] Copenhagen (need to know by FEB 28)
        - [x] Update on dates - Chris M out through may 2
            - [x] May 5th Monday to Wednesday 7th
              - [ ] Add online meeting for BEPs
              - [ ] Make it a BIDS brainhack thing
            - [x] Day 1 (Monday) - public day
            - [x] Day 2-3 (Tues-Weds) : Maintainers, get through as many issues as we can 
        - [ ] Scope/Focus - justifying additional invitees --
            - [ ] Public day - outreach to European BIDS collaborator
                - [ ] How many people?
                - [ ] Stefan, Robert, Oscar, Martin N, M Hanke, Yarik? 
            - [ ] which PRs could use invites? 
                - [ ] atlases
                - [ ] eye-tracking
                - [ ] PR "pay to play"
        - [ ] Logistics for late Feb:
            - [x] Who's paying for flights?
              - Can use the funds that Ariel (and Cyril if in EU) still has
            - [ ] Who's coordinating?
              - Cyril helps with with local logistics
              - Program and content details ???
            - [x] Who's booking hotels? --> Cyril

2. MEDD Reversion `5min`
    - Chris M started a response: MEDD
    - Used this as precedent to set guidelines to be added to BIDS website with respect to adding new format to BIDS
   
3. BIDS BEP process
    - Started a PR to update it [on the BIDS website](https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-website/pull/615)
    - Will require creation of a working group as modification of the governance
    - Yarik had an idea of "BEP AI Agent", generalized overall into a request [where to file such ideas for projects?](https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-website/issues/620)
    
4. Maintainers Updates 
    > Cyril raised issue on field mandatoriness consistancy in qMRI (field X must be present, but if one one does not know the value use filed Y, ok so why not allow field Y

## Meeting Minutes

### BIDS Copenhagen Meeting: May 5-7

- Cyril will book a meeting room May 5th for Maintainers meeting 
- DH:  when will we have a plan/schedule so that Steering Group and others can book their travel? 
- RG: do we want to extend an invite to those with mature BEPS? 
- RG: one priority for maintainers is to address the growing number of issues and PR requests. 
- DH: will there be an online working day as well for people that are creating 'issues' for maintainers 
- FP: we could label this as a 'brainhack' to build synergy and publicity for the meeting
- RG: who will pay for flights from USA 
- CP: Ariel will pay for fligths from US, Cyril will pay for EU 
- YH: Confirm with Ariel the reimbursement details or best to prebook through them

### BIDS fiscal sponsorship with INCF

- See last meeting notes
- this should be voted on by the committee 
    YH: proposal would need more details 
- KR would contact Matthew to get contract, based on which and notes we would prepare the post/voting in support of using INCF as fiscal sponsor

### MEDD Revision

Cyril/Chris started a google doc for this: MEDD

- This could be useful for the next version of BIDS specification as well. 
- RG & CP: It should be clearly stated and easily found.
  Could be even part of the spec not just website.
- Chris will send an email response 
- YH: adding new formats to BIDS should be considered IFF they are already being widely used (80/20 rule)
- DH: we dont want to be a format approval for companies, there should be a need or use case from the community to support BIDS extending to the format
- we should also provide feedback on the decision process and why a new format is not being adopted (its not a common format),
- procedure: ask advisory groups to see if a new suggested format matches the criterion

### Maintainers Updates

- BEP process is growing, and will likely involve change to the governance.  This will also need a working group

- Started a PR to update it [on the BIDS website](https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-website/pull/615)
    - Will require creation of a working group as modification of the governance
    - we can and should operationalize the BEP process 
    - CP there seems to be an 'infinite loop' of propose BEP-review-etc-etc, how do we solve this? (eg, atlas BEP)
    - DH & CP: Virtual/in-person discussions tend to facilitate resolving issues or barriers, this should be organized by BEP leads with all parties involved. A summary of the discussion outcomes should then be provided to the maintainers.

## Tasks

### Steering Group:

- [ ] Ask for INCF Fiscal Sponsorship Contract from Mathew Abrams [Kim - sent]
- [ ] BIDS Connectivity needs coordination across BEPS. [Franco]
