---

date: 2025-07-31
slug: "Steering Group minutes"
author: anonymous
categories:

-   steering group minutes

---

## Agenda

1.  [move to bids-standard.org](https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-website/issues/673#issuecomment-2971005849)

1.  Response to BIDS Townhalls `5 min`

    > do we have an estimate date on the rolling of the new BIDS website?
    > \[name=Camille] list of BEP statuses?
    > \[name=Yarik] commented <https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-website/issues/673#issuecomment-3139948607>

1.  Revitalize BIDS discussions w/journals `10 min`

1.  Maintainers updates `10 min`
    -   Maintainers are back to regular meetings after on-boarding Ashley, Boris, and Yahya

    -   Maintainers would like steering to weigh in on the modality and data types discussion
        \-   [Issue #2108](https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-specification/issues/2108)
        \-   [Oscar’s proposal](https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-website/pull/670/files)
        \-   [Yahya’s proposal](https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-specification/pull/2135)

    -   EBRAINS Summit/INCF BIDS Help Desk funding for Christine?
        \-   Cyril and Franco will be there.

    -   From the town hall: steering should continue Ariel's work to try getting "BIDS datasets" to pass the BIDS validator for published papers

1.  Steering meeting over zoom Camille won't be able to join as of Sept :(

<!-- more -->

## Meeting Minutes

### Move to bids-standard.org

-   YH: BIDS is now more than imaging, so the new web address aligns better with their presence.
-   CM: BIDS neuroimaging has been out for a while, and so we need to be careful about implementing website re-directs, particularly since there are many resources that still use bids.neuroimaging.io
-   FP & YH:  BIDS has indeed expanded beyond neuroimaging, including behavioral experiments.
-   SG: all in agreement to approve the move to bids-standard.org

### BIDS Townhalls

-   Notes: <https://hackmd.io/oihJbKLQTnWhI7t7dN1l1g>
-   CP: BIDS presence for EBRAINS & INCF in December - Cyril will be there. CP will submit a
-   Cyril and Franco will both be at EBRAINS/INCF
-   CM - we need more info on what the BIDS presence may look like at the EBRAINS/INCF meeting
-   no BIDS table at INCF EBRAINS

> From INCF newsletter: "We are happy to collaborate with EBRAINS to organize their Summit and our Assembly jointly on December 8-11 in Brussels, Belgium - stay tuned for exciting updates regarding the program and benefits for INCF members!" --> <https://summit2025.ebrains.eu/posters>

-   CP there is more fundings for a BIDS maintainer meeting ($20Kish remaining)
-   CP: need to follow up on BEP on atlases

### BIDS Discussions with Journals

-   GOAL: tag when journals have BIDS compliant datasets that are sharable.
-   YH: is there a github issue for this?
-   CP: Aperture Neuro was open to incorporating BIDS (has been incorporated: see <https://apertureneuro.org/for-authors>), Scientific Data suggested creating a collection/BIDS-tag, Imaging Neuroscience was not enthusiastic,HBM - not much enthusiasm
-   we could follow up with Renzo (Scientific data), then Simon Eickhoff (HBM)
-   what is the ask for these journals: create a BIDS-compliant keyword? a citation (ex: datacite, ) cite the BIDS release used on zenodo, provide the BIDS validation files/certificate
-   FP: ezBIDS could offer this service once it no longer requires data to be run through US servers
-   Yaroslav: filed <https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-validator/issues/219> to make bids-validator provide instructions/citation

### Logistics organization of Steering Group Meetings

-   on zoom
-   best way to send apologies?
-   Camille to try this up and get back to the steering group

### Maintainers Updates

-   there are 3 new maintainers, the maintainers calls have been split into two calls now that work for US East/West coast and their closest non-US regions.
-   Modality and datatypes discussion: Steering group please review and discuss feedback for merging.

### BIDS in-person meeting before/after OHBM 2025

-   We can add this point to the next steering meeting
-   In the meantime, a quick show of hands of who on steering would be willing to attend such a meeting before and/or after OHBM would be useful. Also if we can hear from the maintainers that would be great as well.
