---
title: Steering Group minutes
author:
display: true
---

# Steering Group minutes 2023/11/30

Date: Thursday, November 30th, 2023

<!--more-->


<table>
 <colgroup>
  <col style="width: 47%"/>
  <col style="width: 52%"/>
 </colgroup>
 <thead>
  <tr class="header">
   <th>
    <strong>
     Topic
    </strong>
   </th>
   <th>
    <strong>
     Relevant Links
    </strong>
   </th>
  </tr>
  <tr class="odd">
   <th>
    Welcome new steering group members!
   </th>
   <th>
   </th>
  </tr>
  <tr class="header">
   <th>
    Finalize OHBM submissions
   </th>
   <th>
    <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sYXI_uUmkMMZg4OqYRSOCRkb66IZ_qQJbvI-nP3Z024/edit?usp=sharing">
     <u>
      https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sYXI_uUmkMMZg4OqYRSOCRkb66IZ_qQJbvI-nP3Z024/edit?usp=sharing
     </u>
    </a>
    -- change again of people, no multiple submissions, Dora/Camille not
going
   </th>
  </tr>
  <tr class="odd">
   <th>
    Aperture Neuro further steps
   </th>
   <th>
    <a href="https://apertureneuro.org/for-authors">
     <u>
      https://apertureneuro.org/for-authors
     </u>
    </a>
    , see
    <a href="https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-website/issues/359">
     <u>
      https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-website/issues/359
     </u>
    </a>
   </th>
  </tr>
  <tr class="header">
   <th>
    Update on TOSI prize funds
   </th>
   <th>
   </th>
  </tr>
  <tr class="odd">
   <th>
    BIDS history timeline
   </th>
   <th>
    <a href="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1rY-ByN45tWVxV6gpAz541cPvLXwL4itbu8Pwu_V4qtw/edit#slide=id.p">
     <u>
      BIDS
history timeline
     </u>
    </a>
   </th>
  </tr>
  <tr class="header">
   <th>
    Website
   </th>
   <th>
    Maybe spend some cash with
https://www.ericholscher.com/roadmap/
   </th>
  </tr>
  <tr class="odd">
   <th>
   </th>
   <th>
   </th>
  </tr>
 </thead>
 <tbody>
 </tbody>
</table>

[[https://utexas.zoom.us/my/kimray]{.underline}](https://utexas.zoom.us/my/kimray)

**Present:** Guio, Robert, Cyril, Camille, Ariel, Dora, Ross

**Guest:** none

BIDS Meeting Notes:

From Renzo Huber email (November 21st):

"I had reported back to the executive time of Aperture about what we had
discussed at the BIDS Steering Group meeting.

We have implemented a few of the suggestions that were discussed:

-\> The [[author
guidelines]{.underline}](https://urldefense.com/v3/__https://apertureneuro.org/for-authors__;!!K-Hz7m0Vt54!hYrc_zwV6CSxP10J0AQf_OWGR-doFt3PFZa5wXdfyjjCfaOkc1qp5qGN32AwaXFKD9fv3uoZD2omdBKU8W3m$)
now explicitly state that we recommend people to share their data in
BIDS. This needs to be mentioned in the manuscript with the respective
BIDS validator version. This is optional, though. If authors share their
data without a successful BIDS validation, the reviewers might ask for a
justification. But the Journal will not exclude the paper based on this
alone.

-\> We recommend authors to include BIDS as one of the key-words. This
means that manuscripts can be sorted based on this flag. This then also
extends to 'tags' in URLs: as
[[https://apertureneuro.org/articles?tag=BIDS]{.underline}](https://urldefense.com/v3/__https://apertureneuro.org/articles?tag=BIDS__;!!K-Hz7m0Vt54!hYrc_zwV6CSxP10J0AQf_OWGR-doFt3PFZa5wXdfyjjCfaOkc1qp5qGN32AwaXFKD9fv3uoZD2omdF3Fwu2O$).

This feature is new for articles that are being typesetter via a
Apertures new vendor. Thus, there are no articles with this tag yet.

-\> The manuscript submission form has an optional check box asking
whether shared data are in BIDS.

-\> Aperture Neuro (as part of Schlasica journals) does not have the
flexibility of generating our own header fields in PDFs."

**Notes:**

Aperture Neuro followup:

We can use Aperture Neuro as an example: How can journal editors
contribute to the BIDS ecosystem? This will give us a good basis for
further conversations with other journal editors. See
[[https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-website/issues/359]{.underline}](https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-website/issues/359)

"""

-   For data documentation, it is advised to use the BIDS format
    ([[https://bids.neuroimaging.io/]{.underline}](https://bids.neuroimaging.io/)).
    It is recommended that the authors check the respective box in the
    submission form. It is recommended that authors use 'BIDS' as one of
    the key-words of the manuscript. And it is recommended that authors
    mention the version of the BIDS validator that was used to ensure
    BIDS compatibility.

"""

Maybe reach out to Simon Eickhoff for integration into Human Brain
Mapping (Cyril will do that).

Ariel will reply to Renzo to say that we discussed and thank them, and
mention we will include this in the documentation for BIDS, and we will
point others to this as an example.

Instructions for reviewers? Should we write a document that has a
checklist? Or something like that? Run the validator, of course.

BIDS validator can tell users how many files are in the .bidsignore

**TOSI funds:**

**Website:**

Could use some of the funds to improve the website. At least
conceptually. Could use a freelancer? E.g., from upwork?

Need to think about different "persona": casual users, data
users/consumers, content contributors.

In a maintainers meeting Christine mentioned google season of docs as an
approach for rewriting/updating documentation. She said the INCF had
used them with good success but finding and managing the technical
writer can be tricky.

[[https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs]{.underline}](https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs)

[[Timeline for Google Season of Docs
2023]{.underline}](https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs/docs/timeline)

[[https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs/docs/2019/participants/project-incf-1]{.underline}](https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs/docs/2019/participants/project-incf-1)

[[https://www.ericholscher.com/roadmap/]{.underline}](https://www.ericholscher.com/roadmap/)
he is the developer of ReadTheDocs and offers consultancy for 2,500 USD.
