---
title: Steering Group minutes
author:
display: true
---

# Steering Group minutes 2023/11/09

Date: Thursday, November 9th, 2023

<!--more-->


<table>
 <colgroup>
  <col style="width: 47%"/>
  <col style="width: 52%"/>
 </colgroup>
 <thead>
  <tr class="header">
   <th>
    <strong>
     Topic
    </strong>
   </th>
   <th>
    <strong>
     Relevant Links
    </strong>
   </th>
  </tr>
  <tr class="odd">
   <th>
    Consolidation: we have so many people that struggle converting with
the available converter tools and the starter kit documentation. Those
people are our stakeholders and could use better support. E.g. extending
the starter kit, office hours, ...
   </th>
   <th>
   </th>
  </tr>
  <tr class="header">
   <th>
    <p>
     Are we all clear with receiving our part of the prize money? And
are we clear with the split between the USA and EU?
    </p>
    <p>
     Also: meeting with TOSI Leaders Council November 15th at 13:30
EST
    </p>
   </th>
   <th>
   </th>
  </tr>
  <tr class="odd">
   <th>
    OHBM town hall meeting
   </th>
   <th>
    <p>
     <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sYXI_uUmkMMZg4OqYRSOCRkb66IZ_qQJbvI-nP3Z024/edit">
      <u>
       OHBM
Round table
      </u>
     </a>
    </p>
    <p>
     <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Uy58ZP0P6D0VkeqDF4bx2unoxR7kokReugWVG94O8AM/edit?pli=1#heading=h.vapm8s87pxc2">
      <u>
       BIDS_Symposium_OHBM_2024
      </u>
     </a>
    </p>
   </th>
  </tr>
  <tr class="header">
   <th>
    Election new steering group members
   </th>
   <th>
   </th>
  </tr>
  <tr class="odd">
   <th>
    Dung Truong from UCSD suggested to be a co-lead on HED for the
advisory committee.
   </th>
   <th>
    <ul>
     <li>
     </li>
    </ul>
   </th>
  </tr>
  <tr class="header">
   <th>
    From last meeting: Some BEP037 budget in Italy, probably easiest to
try to allocate it for Stefan or Remi. First part of budget needs to be
spent by March and next batch in December. ACTION POINT: Anthony to ask
other maintainers.
   </th>
   <th>
   </th>
  </tr>
  <tr class="odd">
   <th>
    BIDS paper Guio drafted history line:
    <a href="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1rY-ByN45tWVxV6gpAz541cPvLXwL4itbu8Pwu_V4qtw/edit#slide=id.p">
     <u>
      BIDS
history timeline
     </u>
    </a>
   </th>
   <th>
   </th>
  </tr>
 </thead>
 <tbody>
 </tbody>
</table>



[[https://utexas.zoom.us/my/kimray]{.underline}](https://utexas.zoom.us/my/kimray)

**Present:**

**Guest:** no guest planned


BIDS Meeting Notes:

Ariel will do the TOSI talk 13:30 Eastern US Time. Others from the
steering group are also invited to join, but nobody else seems to be
available.

Yarik will give the prize acceptance talk at the Open Science symposium
on 30 Nov. Try to give a take home message to influential people in the
audience (for future funding etc). Look at the application pitch for
some figure.

Ariel is confident that half of the money that UW receives can be
transferred to Copenhagen. Ariel will write something for Copenhagen as
subcontractor, and Cyril should send an invoice. Since the first
maintainers workshop to be organized is by Ariel, it is best to have the
money first go to UW, then Copenhagen.

OHBM deadline was extended, the round table will consist of two
(5-minute?) talks and a discussion, but especially should be
free-format. Christine volunteered to be one of the speakers, which is
very welcome for a more diverse representation.

[[OHBM Round
table]{.underline}](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sYXI_uUmkMMZg4OqYRSOCRkb66IZ_qQJbvI-nP3Z024/edit)

[[BIDS_Symposium_OHBM_2024]{.underline}](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Uy58ZP0P6D0VkeqDF4bx2unoxR7kokReugWVG94O8AM/edit?pli=1#heading=h.vapm8s87pxc2)

We should invite the Chinese and Korean chapters of OHBM to join (or
have a representative join) in the round table meeting. ACTIO POINT:
Cyril will contact them.

New steering group members: quorum has been reached but results are not
yet available. Should become available tomorrow.

Stefan and Remi seem to be interested to work on BEP037 as
subcontractors. ACTION point: Robert will check with Remi and Stefan.

Consolidation: there is general agreement that it would be good to get
more content under a single web-presence (bids-standard.org). Cyril
could pay Anthony to work on this, as it is part of the goals of
OpenNeuroPet. It would also be possible to hire external communication
and UX expertise to support this. ACTIO point: Cyril will chat with
Melanie and Anthony and we should all think about the content to be
consolidated.

Here is a list to get started with:

-   bids.neuroimaging.io (to go under bids-standard.org)

-   apps.neuroimaging.io

-   Starter kit

-   Specification (now on RTD)

-   Extension guidelines (now on RTD)

-   Awesome BIDS list

-   Governance documents that are now as a google doc

-   ...

Things not to merge but to link

-   Google docs with draft BEPs

-   Github organization, issues and workflow

-   Support channels (google group, neurostars)

-   Announcement channels (mattermost, twitter)

-   Merchandize

-   ...

Things that are not for public display

-   Maintainers folder on Google Drive

-   Slack

-   Meeting notes (at least some are not for public display)
