---
title: Steering Group minutes
author:
display: true
---

# Steering Group minutes 2023/07/27

Date: Thursday, July 27th, 2023

<!--more-->


<table>
 <thead>
  <tr class="header">
   <th>
    <strong>
     Topic
    </strong>
   </th>
   <th>
    <strong>
     Relevant Links
    </strong>
   </th>
  </tr>
 </thead>
 <tbody>
  <tr class="odd">
   <td>
    Derivatives output - internal review before release for comments?
   </td>
   <td>
    <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JtTu5u7XTkWxxnCIH6sxGajGn1qG_syJ-p14aejpk3E/edit?usp=drive_link">
     <span class="underline">
      BIDS_derivatives_guidelines
     </span>
    </a>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr class="even">
   <td>
    Imaging Neuroscience Response regarding BIDS ‘badge’
   </td>
   <td>
    <p>
     (see email from Steve Smith)
     <br/>
     “Thanks for this - hopefully we all agree that using BIDS is a good idea where practical, and should be encouraged.
    </p>
    <p>
     The best thing would be for BIDS (committee etc) to encourage authors to be very clear and explicit (eg in Methods text) when BIDS has been used, just as with the many other important aspects of the methodology used in a given paper. At Imaging Neuroscience we would have no problem at all in authors being clear about their use of BIDS. We couldn't have a "front page badge" because that would risk an overwhelming number of similar requests, but I think the important thing is to explicitly mention use of BIDS in the main text.
    </p>
    <p>
     “
    </p>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr class="odd">
   <td>
    Neuro Open Science Prize
   </td>
   <td>
    <a href="https://www.mcgill.ca/neuro/open-science/open-science-awards-and-prizes/neuro-irv-and-helga-cooper-foundation-open-science-prizes">
     <span class="underline">
      https://www.mcgill.ca/neuro/open-science/open-science-awards-and-prizes/neuro-irv-and-helga-cooper-foundation-open-science-prizes
     </span>
    </a>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr class="even">
   <td>
    BIDS 2.0?
   </td>
   <td>
    <p>
     <a href="https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-2-devel/issues">
      <span class="underline">
       bids-standard/bids-2-devel/issues
      </span>
     </a>
    </p>
    <ul>
     <li>
      <p>
       Identify a subset of issues to plan for 2.0 and suggest to the higher authorities/community?
      </p>
     </li>
    </ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
 </tbody>
</table>


**Present:** Yaroslav Halchenko, Ariel Rokem, Anthony Galassi, Kimberly
Ray

**Guest:** n/a


BIDS Meeting Notes:

**BIDS Badges**:

-   Ariel will follow up with Guy Jones

-   Others to reach out to:

    -   Renzo Huber @ Aperture - and how can BIDS help Aperture? - Kim
        > will invite them for Sept 7th meeting

    -   [[Neurolibre]{.underline}](https://github.com/neurolibre/neurolibre)
        > to add a BIDS tag?

**BIDS Derivatives**:

-   It\'s currently summer holiday so it may not be a good time to
    > expect feedback, can review next meeting.

**Feedback from OHBM**

-   After townhall, maintainers meeting expressed excitement about the
    > derivatives meeting. More in-person meet-ups might encourage more
    > progress on various projects

    -   Winter/Spring might be a good timeframe for the next meeting.

    -   Could existing funded projects help with this? - perhaps look
        > into a supplement for the BIDS connectivity grant?

    -   Adam Thomas at NIMH might have ideas for funding opportunities

    -   NSF-POSE funding possibility?

-   DICOM/BIDS discussion around the townhall (ISMRM-RD group might be a
    > good collaborative group to work with for DICOM/BIDS
    > interoperability).

**BIDS 2.0** : (also feedback from the town hall)

-   *Aka BIDS 1.0 with enhancements*

-   How can we take advantage of ontologies in this version?

-   How can new enhancements allow more flexibility for BIDS? E.g. use
    > of dashes in file names

-   Work on the schema may facilitate or inhibit the transition to BIDS
    > 2.0

-   How/When do we know when BIDS 2.0 is ready?

-   Anthony says that the [[schema is
    > complete]{.underline}](https://imgflip.com/i/7txwm7)

-   New BIDS issue for BIDS 2.0 specification & [[project
    > board]{.underline}](https://github.com/orgs/bids-standard/projects/10/views/1?layout=board)
    > .

**Neuro Open Science Prize**

[**[https://www.mcgill.ca/neuro/open-science/open-science-awards-and-prizes/neuro-irv-and-helga-cooper-foundation-open-science-prizes]{.underline}**](https://www.mcgill.ca/neuro/open-science/open-science-awards-and-prizes/neuro-irv-and-helga-cooper-foundation-open-science-prizes)

-   Submissions open August 1st, Due Date Sept 10
-   Submissions open August 1st, Due Date Sept 10, 2023

<!--more-->


<table>
 <thead>
  <tr class="header">
   <th>
    <strong>
     Topic
    </strong>
   </th>
   <th>
    <strong>
     Relevant Links
    </strong>
   </th>
  </tr>
 </thead>
 <tbody>
  <tr class="odd">
   <td>
    Derivatives output - internal review before release for comments?
   </td>
   <td>
    <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JtTu5u7XTkWxxnCIH6sxGajGn1qG_syJ-p14aejpk3E/edit?usp=drive_link">
     <span class="underline">
      BIDS_derivatives_guidelines
     </span>
    </a>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr class="even">
   <td>
    Imaging Neuroscience Response regarding BIDS ‘badge’
   </td>
   <td>
    <p>
     (see email from Steve Smith)
     <br/>
     “Thanks for this - hopefully we all agree that using BIDS is a good idea where practical, and should be encouraged.
    </p>
    <p>
     The best thing would be for BIDS (committee etc) to encourage authors to be very clear and explicit (eg in Methods text) when BIDS has been used, just as with the many other important aspects of the methodology used in a given paper. At Imaging Neuroscience we would have no problem at all in authors being clear about their use of BIDS. We couldn't have a "front page badge" because that would risk an overwhelming number of similar requests, but I think the important thing is to explicitly mention use of BIDS in the main text.
    </p>
    <p>
     “
    </p>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr class="odd">
   <td>
    Neuro Open Science Prize
   </td>
   <td>
    <a href="https://www.mcgill.ca/neuro/open-science/open-science-awards-and-prizes/neuro-irv-and-helga-cooper-foundation-open-science-prizes">
     <span class="underline">
      https://www.mcgill.ca/neuro/open-science/open-science-awards-and-prizes/neuro-irv-and-helga-cooper-foundation-open-science-prizes
     </span>
    </a>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr class="even">
   <td>
    BIDS 2.0?
   </td>
   <td>
    <p>
     <a href="https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-2-devel/issues">
      <span class="underline">
       bids-standard/bids-2-devel/issues
      </span>
     </a>
    </p>
    <ul>
     <li>
      <p>
       Identify a subset of issues to plan for 2.0 and suggest to the higher authorities/community?
      </p>
     </li>
    </ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
 </tbody>
</table>

-   Should assemble previous applications

-   Organize letter of support for the application (need at least 10
    > letters) :

    -   Brainstorm for letters here:
        > [[https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1gYfP1C84e1\_81HPIGBbXl8v\_Z3b43uCLGHBa0RhtnOM/edit\#gid=0]{.underline}](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1gYfP1C84e1_81HPIGBbXl8v_Z3b43uCLGHBa0RhtnOM/edit#gid=0)

    -   Possible contacts:
        > [[https://www.internationalbraininitiative.org/data-standards-and-sharing-working-group]{.underline}](https://www.internationalbraininitiative.org/data-standards-and-sharing-working-group)

    -

-   How should the application strategy change from previous years?
