---
title: Steering Group minutes
author:
display: true
---

# Steering Group minutes 2024/02/01

Date: Thursday, February 1st, 2024

<!--more-->


<table>
 <colgroup>
  <col style="width: 47%"/>
  <col style="width: 52%"/>
 </colgroup>
 <thead>
  <tr class="header">
   <th>
    <strong>
     Topic
    </strong>
   </th>
   <th>
    <strong>
     Relevant Links and to do
    </strong>
   </th>
  </tr>
  <tr class="odd">
   <th>
    April maintainers meeting in Seattle
   </th>
   <th>
    <p>
     Updates?
     <a href="https://github.com/bids-standard/202404-seattle-maintainer-meeting">
      <u>
       https://github.com/bids-standard/202404-seattle-maintainer-meeting
      </u>
     </a>
    </p>
    <p>
     <a href="https://bids-standard.github.io/202404-seattle-maintainer-meeting/">
      <u>
       https://bids-standard.github.io/202404-seattle-maintainer-meeting/
      </u>
     </a>
    </p>
   </th>
  </tr>
  <tr class="header">
   <th>
    BIDS steering ways of working, onboarding?
   </th>
   <th>
    <p>
     Right now pure catching up, but maybe good idea to have a
plan
    </p>
    <p>
     We got an
     <a href="https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1yx6VWptjdv1JOe0Ybpb48iMB0bCoG_Ae?usp=drive_link">
      <u>
       onboarding
      </u>
     </a>
     folder
for maintainers (probably overlap with onboarding steering) in the
google drive and a
     <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vxUglvS_mfqIpHOFUtxYAb79zQTYMYhajc7pQfSqSl0/edit">
      <u>
       BIDS
accounts and onboarding
      </u>
     </a>
     and
     <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kNcuI-phF_N40m0Kuo9PTTD0K7atz5FOvxhYtQCR1ms/edit#heading=h.cr010sb0buzg">
      <u>
       CONTENT
      </u>
     </a>
     for
the whole google drive
    </p>
    <p>
     -- proof the website and info needs updated :-) lol
    </p>
   </th>
  </tr>
  <tr class="odd">
   <th>
    <p>
     OPM BEP proposal ?? seems wrong given test performed -- MEG
updates needed
    </p>
    <p>
     <a href="https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-specification/issues/1676">
      <u>
       https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-specification/issues/1676
      </u>
     </a>
    </p>
   </th>
   <th>
   </th>
  </tr>
  <tr class="header">
   <th>
    Cyril/Ariel, train the trainers idea as part of outreach
   </th>
   <th>
    <ul>
     <li>
      <p>
       Possibly develop software carpentry module
      </p>
     </li>
     <li>
      <p>
       Give certifications/badges for different levels of
experience
      </p>
     </li>
     <li>
      <p>
       Ariel recommended software carpentry as in general pedagogical
training
      </p>
     </li>
    </ul>
   </th>
  </tr>
  <tr class="odd">
   <th>
    Updates on plan for website
   </th>
   <th>
    <p>
     See
     <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1miuxSWHcSq0CQ-aufe8Ho0IJpJOirUogCd2HNOi5FHY/edit#heading=h.li30raxumiv7">
      <u>
       BIDS
Online Presence Working Group: Working Document
      </u>
     </a>
    </p>
    <p>
     <strong>
      To be discussed next time
     </strong>
    </p>
   </th>
  </tr>
  <tr class="header">
   <th>
    Cooperation with DICOM standard
   </th>
   <th>
    YOH pointed David Clunie to our
    <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/u/0/d/1wcal4qi2z14bSKm7lTuqyzb3FdvmCDfXHl0iMhIFeaE/edit">
     <u>
      DICOMs
deficits table
     </u>
    </a>
    , he forwarded to WG-16 to consider at the next
meeting.
    <strong>
     To be discussed next time
    </strong>
   </th>
  </tr>
  <tr class="odd">
   <th>
    <p>
     OHBM roundtable/town hall plans
    </p>
    <p>
     <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sYXI_uUmkMMZg4OqYRSOCRkb66IZ_qQJbvI-nP3Z024/edit?usp=sharing">
      <u>
       OHBM
Round table
      </u>
     </a>
    </p>
   </th>
   <th>
    Cyril to email Chinese and Korean chapters
   </th>
  </tr>
  <tr class="header">
   <th>
    BIDS 2.0 going forward!
   </th>
   <th>
    <strong>
     To be discussed next time
    </strong>
   </th>
  </tr>
 </thead>
 <tbody>
 </tbody>
</table>



[[https://washington.zoom.us/my/arokem]{.underline}](https://washington.zoom.us/my/arokem)

**Present:** Cyril Pernet, Kimberly Ray, Ariel Rokem, Camille Maumet,
Yaroslav Halchenko, Rémi Gau

**Guest:**


## BIDS Meeting Notes

### April maintainers meeting in Seattle

-   Christine and Eric are pinging people to see if they want / can come

-   Maintainers need to be re-pinged

-   Meeting can support about 20-25 attendees

-   Scope: For maintainers and / or BEP?

-   ACTION: [[arokem@gmail.com]{.underline}](mailto:arokem@gmail.com)
    contact maintainers to know what type of meetings and would be most
    useful for them

### BIDS steering ways of working

-   How can new steering group members \'catch up' on the previous years
    progress and ongoing goals for the steering group?

-   Important docs: We got an
    [[onboarding]{.underline}](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1yx6VWptjdv1JOe0Ybpb48iMB0bCoG_Ae?usp=drive_link)folder
    for maintainers (probably overlap with onboarding steering) in the
    google drive and a [[BIDS accounts and
    onboarding]{.underline}](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vxUglvS_mfqIpHOFUtxYAb79zQTYMYhajc7pQfSqSl0/edit)

-   The google drive is where everything lives, Remi has a
    [[CONTENT]{.underline}](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kNcuI-phF_N40m0Kuo9PTTD0K7atz5FOvxhYtQCR1ms/edit#heading=h.cr010sb0buzg)
    file to help browse the google drive

-   What?

    -   What was achieved by steering in past 2-3 years

    -   Current projects in progress in the steering group.

    -   A view of typical \"tasks\"/topics the steering is working on.

-   ACTION: Rémi set up a meeting to populate the onboarding docs above

-   ACTION: Kim added bookmark linking the BIDS Maintainers google drive
    in the BIDS steering group slack channel for easier access

### OPM BEP proposal

-   Optically Pumped Magnetometer-based Magnetoencephalography (OPM-MEG)

-   Suggestion: contact BEP leaders to address the concerns that it is
    not following BEP protocols.

-   Could probably be PR?

-   In any case, we should point them to the bids BEP guidelines:
    [[https://bids-extensions.readthedocs.io/en/latest/guide/#when-and-how-to-start-a-bids-extension-proposal]{.underline}](https://bids-extensions.readthedocs.io/en/latest/guide/#when-and-how-to-start-a-bids-extension-proposal)

    -   BEP guidelines may require too high of a level of understanding
        of BIDS for a novice user

-   ACTION: Rémi to point to BEP guidelines, mention that it is probably
    not needed to go for a BEP but a PR should be enough. Mention that a
    PR plus example should be enough.

-   ACTION: update BEP guidelines to make sure that the future \'BEP'
    content cannot already fit into what BIDS raw can do.

-   ACTION: [Camille+Rém]{.mark}i to propose and update to the BEP
    guidelines. Note would be good to ask people to ask to reach out
    earlier to maintainers/steering w/ an example so that it can
    illustrate why a BEP would be needed.

### Train the trainers

-   Goal is to make BIDS more accessible and increase impact

-   Similar to data carpentries:
    [[https://carpentries.org/become-instructor/]{.underline}](https://carpentries.org/become-instructor/)

-   Repronim fellowship:
    [[https://www.repronim.org/fellowship]{.underline}](https://www.repronim.org/fellowship)

    -   This is more geared to help fellows create material for their
        own training

-   List "certified BIDS trainers" on the BIDS website

-   Having a way to "certify" trainers

-   Who will be the (meta)trainer to train the trainers?

-   Data carpentry BIDS "courses" in the carpentry incubator (**for
    users not trainers**):
    [[https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-starter-kit/issues/136#issue-666838055]{.underline}](https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-starter-kit/issues/136#issue-666838055)

-   Lighter version of an ambassador program:
    [[https://www.softwareheritage.org/ambassadors/#becoming-an-ambassador]{.underline}](https://www.softwareheritage.org/ambassadors/#becoming-an-ambassador)

-   Carpentries instructor certification:
    [[https://carpentries.org/become-instructor/]{.underline}](https://carpentries.org/become-instructor/),
    and materials we can use/adapt:
    [[https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/]{.underline}](https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/)

### OHBM

At this point, reach out to Christine to see what she needs in order to
get her started and going on her part of the presentation, which is the
"state of the BIDS" address.
